All eyes are on the outcome of the fiercely-fought Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation elections, as counting for polls to 10 municipal corporations and 25 zilla parishads across Maharashtra begins Thursday morning.

Mumbai turned out in large numbers to vote in Tuesday’s civic polls in areas dominated by the Shiv Sena and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). But this does not give either party an edge over the other. In fact, what lies ahead is a tough fight between the friends-turned-foes.

Watch this space for live updates from Mumbai:

10:00am: Counting starts for the BMC?polls.
The increase in the percentage of voter turnout as compared to the 2012 BMC polls is also not an indicator of a clear trend. Reason: The voters’ list has been substantially downsized since 2012. Although the voter turnout jumped to 55.53%, as compared to 44.75 % in 2012, the voters’ list shrunk to 91.8 lakh from 1.02 crore. The actual number of voters this election were just 4.94 lakh more than in 2012.

Deepak Pawar, a faculty member of the department of politics in the Mumbai University, said, “Usually, a significant jump in voter turnout means the irregular voter, tired of the current system, has voted, which translates into a strong anti-incumbency vote. But in this case, with the absolute number of voters having barely changed, anti-incumbency is definitely not the case.”
He said with the fight being cutthroat and one of prestige for both the Sena and the BJP, both parties tried to mobilise their cadre to ensure every voter in their respective strongholds, even the reluctant ones, are made to vote. “This may have resulted in the highest spike in the wards dominated by both parties,” Pawar said.

HT looks at four possible scenarios that could play out after the results for the country’s richest civic body are announced:

SENA, BJP MAKE A COMEBACK FOR ‘THE GOOD OF MUMBAI’

The polarised poll battle in the city between the Shiv Sena and the BJP and the predictions of the exit polls points to a close contest between the saffron allies. In such a scenario, if both parties get similar tallies, there may be little choice but to have a post-poll alliance. In such a scenario, the name-calling and slandering will be left behind for the ‘greater good’. Like in the KDMC, the allies will share the mayors’ post for two-and-a-half years each and come out with a common minimum programme to whitewash the high octane differences during the campaign.