For fans of Chiranjeevi thrilled to see their star in Khaidi No. 150, the excitement is far from over. The Android game ‘Mega 150’ created by Hyderabad-based M-App Source Development brings forth his diverse avatars over the years in a flattering digital version. Unveiled by director V.V. Vinayak and Dil Raju recently, the 14-level game incorporates popular elements from his blockbuster films, 110 of them precisely.

The brain behind this initiative is Satheesh, a die-hard fan of the Chiranjeevi himself, who couldn’t wait to watch his 150th. This is the first project that M-app took up since its inception in August in 2016. The work to build the app took four months. “When we started it, the idea was to base Temple Run’s idea in the context of Chiranjeevi’s film career. In the process, we went beyond that. As fans, we were greedy to include all of his films in multiple levels, but app-space was a constraint and we didn’t want to stretch the elastic any longer,” Satheesh informs us.

The digital artiste in the M-app team grabbed online sources of his films, the body language, the dressing style, iconic sequences and more. The detailing is so precise, that the first level begins in a black and white version, akin to the actor’s beginnings. For instance, if a film like Adavi Donga crops up at a level, a player needs to go past tigers, lions and elephants. A level like Punnami Nagu would have a challenge surrounding snakes, likewise a Jagadeka Veerudu Athiloka Sundari level in a snow backdrop and a Gunda level that’s set up like a train chase.

Entirely touch based, not all levels are open to every user. The gamer has to earn enough stars and points to crack three special levels. Some of the challenges here also include collecting letters like M and S, a toast to Chiranjeevi’s popular fan-names like ‘Macho Star’ and ‘Supreme Hero’. Opening their beta-level app to users alongside the 3D teaser and trailer of the same, they’d prepped up well to attract app-users. As a result, the app-download count stands at an impressive 82000 to date. The situational subtext of a wide range of films and the complexity of the levels lend it a ‘more than a film-app’ vibe.

The app is also the first of its kind in the country for the fact that it takes an entire career of an actor into consideration and not a film alone. Those familiar with Chiranjeevi’s films will relate to it better of course. “The project was more exciting than challenging. We wanted our first project to be an entertainment-oriented venture and thus reach out to wider section of people,” Satheesh signs off.

