Seated amongst a group of trainers at a gym in Jubilee Hills, it isn’t too difficult to identify Vikram Kapoor, the Krav Maga expert. He has the demeanour of a man who is always ready for contact combat. As he begins to talk, he clarifies – Krav Maga is not martial arts and “it isn’t a trick which can be learnt from Youtube tutorials. Krav Maga is about ‘smart system’ and teaches the art of utilising tactics to save oneself when being attacked.” Smart system with tactics, sans any rules. Vikram clarifies. That’s because, “it isn’t a sport,” he says.

What makes Vikram Kapoor popular is the fact that he is the first certified trainer from Israel (where Krava Maga originated) in the art of contact combat; certified in the early 90s. Since then Vikram has not only trained many in Krav Maga but has also been actively advocating the need to learn any art of self defence. According to him, if self defence is important for women, it is equally important for men. “A man needs to be strong enough to protect himself/someone. It isn’t enough to be a man. Being a man doesn’t automatically make us strong; strength needs to be built,” says Vikram. His long list of clients includes business honchos, politicians and actors like Omar Abdullah, Naveen Jindal, actor Abha Deol, Omkar Kanwar, chairman Apollo tyres and Rani Mukherjee . Rani trained with Vikram for a short while during the shoot of Mardaani.

A host of other government and non-government security forces also trained with him. He trained units like SPG, Prime Minister Security, CISF, SSG, Special forces of Indian army and air force, NPA, Hyderabad, North east Police Academy, NEPA Police Academy, Shillong, Indo-Tibetan Border Police and a many more. But rather than boast of the names and units he has trained, Vikram prefers to ask, “Protection and self-defence is easy when we are familiar with our surroundings. Did you observe the entry exit possibilities, the number, make and colours of the cars parked in the parking lot? Every such detail is important.” One can’t help but relate to the character of Bryan Mills in the movie Taken played perfectly by Liam Neeson.

Vikram explains how everything including a pen can be put to use to escape an assault or how and where to kick for maximum pain. “But it doesn’t end there. It isn’t enough to hurt your opponent or assaulter. After hurting, one has to escape as fast as possible . That is why any form of fitness is important. Fitness doesn’t just keep the body strong, it adds strength to the bones and muscles and keeps the mind alert. A sloppy body and mind cannot act fast for self defence.”

Having worked hard to spread the use of Krav Maga, Vikram says, it is difficult to clean the weed. “There are many self-trained certificate course instructors in India who aren’t actually teaching Krav Maga. A wrong approach and tactic can hurt a learner so it is important to make sure who is training.”